Title: Bug fixing XiVO package generation
Date: 2011-08-22 09:47
Author: dachary
Category: XiVO IPBX
Tags: packages
Slug: bug-fixing-xivo-package-generation
Status: published

#### kernel-module ignores SOURCE\_MODULE

When the ROLE=kernel-module is set, the binary packages are built from
an existing package containing the sources of a kernel module in a
fashion that is suitable for module-assistant to work on. The kernel
module to be built is set in the MODULE= variable. If the name of the
module and the name of the package containing the sources from which it
must be built are the same, module-assistant will guess and retrieve the
package from the repository. If the package name is different, it must
be set in the SOURCE\_MODULE= variable.When MODULE is different from
SOURCE\_MODULE, the dependency graph generated by
lib/kernel-module/depends.sh will fail to create the dependency to the
SOURCE\_MODULE package

The dependency was changed from depending on the rule that is used to
build the package to the timestamp generated by the build of the
package. Using the rule would always recompile the package. Using the
timestamp only recompiles of one timestamp is more recent.The regular
expression looking for the MODULE in the Makefile is changed to also
look for the SOURCE\_MODULE variable. When both are found, their content
is used to lookup a source package. If it turns out that both MODULE and
SOURCE\_MODULE are present and MODULE is the name of a source package,
their will be one undesired dependency. However, this is harmless
because the worst that can happen is that the kernel modules are rebuilt
although they don't need to.

[changeset](http://packaging-farm.dachary.org/trac/changeset/3c7465772c1bcb81fd508bd060cf980a7806d490)

#### submit-xivo.sh must reuse tarbal

When the Debian GNU/Linux package of a XiVO software is improved, the
source tarbal must not be rebuilt. Rebuilding the .orig.tar.gz for the
exact same directory tree will lead to a different md5sum signature,
because of the compression. This is problematic when software building
Debian GNU/Linux repositories such as reprepro refuse a submission
because they already know of a previous tarbal of the same name but with
a different version number.

XiVO formerly had native Debian GNU/Linux packages (i.e. packages where
there is no separate source tarbal). It was later decided to not create
native Debian GNU/Linux packages but the code that prevented the
re-generation of the tarbal was not modified accordingly.A native
package, in the XiVO sense, has no third party code. There is a source
tree separate from the debian tree, but both are dedicated to XiVO. In
order to simplify the submission script, it was decided to avoid
handling Debian GNU/Linux native packages. Even when the source tree is
empty, the resulting package is treated as if there was a source
tree.The code is slightly different with regard to the generation of the
tarbal because the XiVO native package has a source tree including the
name of the software at the root. The third party source tree does not
contain this additional hierarchy level.

[changeset](http://packaging-farm.dachary.org/trac/changeset/034e2d1a16a2b4b80d22463be300f4bacbaba458)

#### reduce the number of hg pull

When running packaging-farm DIRECTORY=a submit ; packaging-farm
DIRECTORY=b submit, it does a git fetch twice on the source and debian
repositories although one would be enough. When this operations is
repeated 30 times only to find that one package must be rebuild, it can
take up to 2 minutes.

A timestamp is set after pulling the debian and source repositories.
Before pulling, the modification time of the timestamp is checked and if
it is found to be more recent than X minutes ago ( GIT\_CACHE\_MINUTES
), the pull is not done. By default the value of GIT\_CACHE\_MINUTES is
set to zero to preserve the current behavior (i.e. the pull occurs every
time).

[changeset](http://packaging-farm.dachary.org/trac/changeset/504cd6a6f8b3ad1b1d256fb88adf029861469632)

#### epoch always triggers submission

The epoch ( number: prepended to package version as explained in
deb-version ) does not show in the .dsc file created by
dpkg-buildpackage -SWhen submit/submit-xivo.sh looks for the .dsc file
matching the package version extracted from the debian changelog, it
does not remove the epoch. As a consequence, the package is never found
to match and is always submitted.

The epoch is stripped from the version before checking it against an
existing .dsc file.

[changeset](http://packaging-farm.dachary.org/trac/changeset/6c1ef0ea8cc190da44157af9abfb1e6db0fa6109)

#### wanpipe

The **wanpipe** directory is mentionned in the
**/var/cache/packaging-farm/skaro/Makefile** line that checks for
submissions. It is not listed as a package to be build. In order to
avoid submitting it to the farm each time a rebuild is required, it was
commented out.

#### epoch change

The migration from svn to git imposed a change in the version numbers.
It must be taken into account by incrementing the epochin the package
version, otherwise the versions will go back in time which is not good
for upgrading. The safeguards introduced insubmit-xivo.sh issue an error
for each package that has a version going back in time:

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-agid/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-agid (6:1.2<a></a>svn10175-2) that is greater or equal
> (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed by
> submit-xivo.sh (6:1.2\~20110819.160331.530a224-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/libpri/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'libpri (28:1.4.12+pf.xivo.1.2<a></a>20110805.172915.12438dd-1)
> that is greater or equal (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than
> the version computed by submit-xivo.sh
> (28:1.4.12+pf.xivo.1.2\~20110707.095210.a65f898-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-base-config/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-base-config (10:1.2<a></a>svn10395-3) that is greater or
> equal (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed
> by submit-xivo.sh (10:1.2\~20110817.155800.06ea074-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-cti-server/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-cti-server (26:1.2<a></a>svn11342-3) that is greater or
> equal (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed
> by submit-xivo.sh (26:1.2\~20110819.160331.530a224-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/freeswitch/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'freeswitch (1.0.6+pf.xivo.1.2.0<a></a>svn9780-0) that is greater
> or equal (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version
> computed by submit-xivo.sh
> (1.0.6+pf.xivo.1.2\~20110308.141044.93b0896-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-lib-js/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-lib-js (1:1.2<a></a>svn10977) that is greater or equal
> (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed by
> submit-xivo.sh (1:1.2\~20110729.174030.0a57146-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-sysconfd/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-sysconfd (1.2<a></a>svn10913-0) that is greater or equal
> (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed by
> submit-xivo.sh (1.2\~20110818.192128.9f3d578-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-web-interface/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-web-interface (7:1.2<a></a>svn10978-0) that is greater or
> equal (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed
> by submit-xivo.sh (7:1.2\~20110819.134415.57c6e08-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-ha/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-ha (1.2<a></a>svn10449-2) that is greater or equal
> (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed by
> submit-xivo.sh (1.2\~20110816.090747.baf278f-1)

> The first line of
> /var/cache/packaging-farm/VCS/debian/squeeze-xivo-skaro/pf-xivo-fetchfw/trunk/debian/changelog
> is 'pf-xivo-fetchfw (3:1.2<a></a>svn11102-0) that is greater or equal
> (according to dpkg --compare-versions) than the version computed by
> submit-xivo.sh (3:1.2\~20110704.194720.51b210e-1)

hexanol updated the changelog entry for each software above to reflect
the change in the convention, adding to epoch as necessary.

</p>

