Title: 1.2.2 1.2.3 1.2.4 1.2.5 here we go
Date: 2012-04-13 00:17
Author: jylebleu
Category: Software
Slug: 122-123-124-125-here-we-go
Status: published

Last September we started to change our development methodology to use
SCRUM.

The main objective was to be able to deliver very quickly new XiVO
versions.Our sprints are two weeks long, and at the end of a sprint we
deliver a new release of XiVO that you can use by using the new
*xivo-upgrade* tool.Every two weeks on Monday we start with the planning
meeting, where we define what will be done during the sprint. Each bug
or task is written on a post it and put on our white board.

Every day, at 09h00 we do our daily Scrum, small stand up meeting where
all the team members answer the three scum traditional questions:

-   What did I do since yesterday?
-   What am I planning to do today?
-   Anything blocks me ?

Optionally at the end of the stand up meeting, we can start a small
technical session about software architecture, code review and now that
we moved to a bigger office, we can draw on the walls and do design
review.

At the middle of the second week, on Wednesday we stop our development,
finish our commits, and build the release. At this time starts the
functional testing period. Today we run more than 350 functional tests
which are described in our test manager
[testlink](http://testlink.xivo.io "testlink"). These tests are partly
automated, and one of our goal is to be able to automate more and more
tests. Furthermore, every day some of our functional tests are run
automatically using our continuous integration server
[](http://jenkins.xivo.io/ "jenkins") in addition to the unit tests
covering part of XiVO software.Once the tests are ok, the delivery check
list helps us to not forget anything to be sure you will be able to
xivo-upgrade your installation without any pain.

Last but not least, we do our sprint retrospective to be able to find
ways to improve our process. At the end, it's time for beer !

Today the main point is to be able to improve XiVO strength, and to
correct and deliver very quickly any problems you may have. New features
will come the second part of 2012 once this objective will be achieved.

It is very encouraging to see that in 2009 it took us on average **315**
days to close an issue, in 2010, 295 days, in 2011, 127 days, and **this
year it takes only 28 days** in average to close an open issue. This is
not finish we still have a long road, but thanks to the great team
working on XiVO, things improve every day.

So stay tune, every two weeks you will get a new flavor of XiVO, more
and more reliable and with hopefully more and more features.

If you'd like to participate in this adventure do not hesitate to
contact us,[we are looking for passionate
people](http://www.avencall.com/index.php?option=com_neorecruit&Itemid=15&lang=en).

</p>

